In order to understand how dynamic programming works we need to understand what caching means.
Caching is a way to store values so you can use them later on.
Ideally you can think of caching as a backpack they take to school instead of going all the way home
when you need something like a pencil.
You have a small box on your back that holds items that you need so that when you go to school you can
just reuse them fast over and over.
Now that's a bit of a silly example.
Caching is just a way for us to speed up programs and hold some piece of data in an easily accessible
box and memoization is a specific form of caching that we're going to be talking about because we use
it a lot in dynamic programming.
But instead of just talking about it let's actually demonstrate it in code the way we can cache things.
Well let's imagine we have a function that says we want to add to 80 and this function takes a number
and all it does is return the value of.
And that is a parameter.
We give it and adds eighty to it.
So that when we run the function add to 80 and let's say we put in five we get 85 nice and simple rate
but if I run this function again I'll have to go through this step again and add 80 to that answer.
And if I do this again again do the same thing I've ran the calculation three times but what if this
operation took a really really long time.
What if I had a console like here and we can imagine that this operation takes multiple seconds.
It takes a long time.
Every time when you run this function we'll have to run long time three times and go through the step
one by one.
Even though we've done the exact same calculation three times Is there a way that we can optimize this.
And this is where we can use caching and memoization let's improve the above function by doing something
different.
I'm going to create a new object called Cache that's going to hold an empty object.
We're also going to have a function that is now going to be called memorized not memorized memorized
add to DD that takes a number and inside here we're going to do something a little bit different than
the above.
We're still going to add 280 but we're going to do it in a special way.
I'm going to say that if n is in cash and this is a way to check if a property exists in an object in
Javascript.
So it's similar to me doing cash dot and to check for the property.
This one just reads about a song and to keep it like that.
So if an exists in cash.
So if we've cashed it before then simply return the cash dot and or cash an so return the cached value.
But obviously it's empty.
The first time around so this is not going to work if there's nothing in the cache which is the case
the first time around.
Well we have an else statement and in here we're going to have our cash an which doesn't exist yet and
assign it an plus 80 so that after this if we do something like Moammar nighest had to eighty five is
going to say five plus 80.
So in here we're going to cash the property five to have a value of eighty five which is what we're
doing here so that the next time around we're doing something like this.
We go through the if statement find the fact that we've already calculated five and just do simple property
access which as we know is of one time is super fast with a hash table like this.
Let's complete this example to show you how it works.
I'm just simply going to return
since we just fill that up here.
And let's just have a console log here that does a long time to see that we're doing the calculation
that takes a long time.
The first time I run this function I get eighty five and I have the cash pre-filled.
So it did and calculate the longtime.
Let's try that again.
Click run longtime The first pass through it went through here and did this calculation that hypothetically
is going to take a really long time.
Again we're using a nice easy example here but you can imagine this being a calculation that takes a
long time many seconds what if we do this again we can console doglike like here
to make sure that we capture these values.
And we'll label them one and two just so we can distinguish them.
So the first goal and the second call if I hit run look at that first time around.
We call longtime and we calculate to 85.
But the second time around because this value was in the cash we did have to do this long calculation
and we just returned it immediately.
So what is memorisation exactly will memoization is a specific form of caching that involves cashing
the return value.
All the function that is the return value of this function based on its parameters.
And if the parameter of this function doesn't change like it is here then it's memorized.
That is it uses the cache because it's calculated the same thing before with the same parameter and
it will return a cached version of the function.
It's memorized if the parameter changes.
Well it's a different parameter that it's never seen before so it's going to calculate both times.
Different things.
And I just noticed that there shouldn't be five issue.
And over here so it's dynamic.
There you go.
That's better.
So remember this memoization is simply a way to remember a solution to a solved problem.
So you don't have to calculate it again.